---
title: Project Configuration
---
The `fugue.project.yaml` file must exist in the root directory of your project--its location identifies the project root and all directory references contained in it are resolved relative to the project file's location.

## Example

This documentation is built using Fugue. See the `docs` directory in the project repository for this example project, including the `fugue.project.yaml` file. 

## Contents

### `site`

The only required setting under `site` is `root`, but remember that the entire project file will be converted to XML, included in `fugue-data.xml`, and available to your templates. You may find it useful to include other settings. 

**`root`:** The root directory of the output generated by Fugue. When Fugue moves or creates files, their locations will be determined relative to `root`.

### `repositories`

A list of Git repositories which will be `clone`d or `pull`ed at the beginning of Fugue's work. Each element has a `remote` (the remote address of the repository) and a `target` the local location of the repo, relative to the Fugue project directory.

##### Example:

    repositories:  
        -
            remote: git@github.com:myaccount/my_data_repo.git  
            target: ../html_css_templates   

### `preprocess`

A list of commands that will be called with [`subprocess.run()`](https://docs.python.org/3.6/library/subprocess.html#subprocess.run) after the repositories are pulled. Each element here should be an iterable containing strings (it will be passed directly to `subprocess.run()`

##### Example:

```    
preprocess:  
    # 'python' here will always call the python executable used to run Fugue.  
    - ['python', 'my-important-script.py']   
```

### `postprocess`

Same as `preprocess`, but these happen _after_ the rest of the processing. 

##### Example:

```
postprocess: We subprocess.run() each of these after doing everything else.    
    - ['python', 'my-other-important-script.py']  
```

### `data-sources`

A named list of data sources to be collected into the `fugue-data.xml` file provided to Fugue's page templates. Each item has the following elements:  

* `type`: This will be "filesystem". No other datasource types are yet implemented.  
* `directory`: The files' location relative to the project root.
* `filemask`: The filemask identifying the files to read. Can be e.g. `*` for all files in the directory, `*.xml` for all XML documents, or a single specific filename. Fugue will use each file's mimetype to decide which file handler to use.

##### Example:

``` 
data-sources:   
docpages:   
    type:   filesystem  
    directory: ./texts  
    filemask: '*.markdown'  
```

### `pages`

A named list of all the xslt templates to be run go generate the site's pages. Each has 

* `template`: The path to the XSLT template.
* `uri`: The file path of the template's output. This can be `false`, if you don't need the template's output (e.g. you're using `xsl:document` to save multiple files from the template.)
* `...`: Any other entries will be passed to the XSL template as parameters. 

##### Example:

```
pages:   
    homepage:  
        uri: index.html  
        template: templates/homepage.xsl #Path to the XSLT  
    docpages:  
        uri: false # Don't save the output of the template.  
        template: templates/pages.xsl  
```

### `static-sources`

A named list of `source/target` directory pairs to copy into the final site.

##### Example:

```
static-sources:  
    emblem-css:  
        source: ./static  
        target: static  
```